We learned a lot about crucial features of Angular already,
let's also learn how we can handle user input and for that in my persons folder, I'll create a new
component which I'll name person-input.component.ts and we export a class in there and just as
before, I'll name this person
input component using Pascal case notation and to turn this into a component we can use,
I will add @component here, imported from @angular/core. We pass a Javascript object to that decorator
and now we can configure that component and just as before, we want to add a selector, app-person-input
for example, makes sense here and you can see how naming works I guess, you have kebab
case here
which means you separate the words with dashes,
Pascal case here which means you have one big word but every sub-word starts with a capital character.
Now we don't just need a selector, we also want to have a template,
you can also define a template in a string inside of this file
but I always use external files which is also recommended and I will point at a person input.component.html
file which doesn't exist yet so let's create it, person-input.component.html
.
Now just as before, to be able to use this component, we need to register it and we'll do so in the app
module.
So here in declarations, I want to add my person input component and here my IDE automatically added
this import, you need to add this on your own if your IDE doesn't do that,
make sure you are importing person input component from that respective file and add it here to declarations
so that you can use its selector in your templates.
Now with that added, let's say I want to render it above my list of persons.
So here I'll add app person input, like that.
Now of course, my template is pretty empty right now,
it's an empty HTML file and to make it more interesting here, I'll actually add an input element of type
text and maybe a label in front of it where I say it should be for the name, like this,
let's give this an ID of name and save that.
Now if you go back, you should see that input and that label next to it.
Now styling isn't beautiful,
you can add your own styles of course,
I want to focus on the core logic and not so much on CSS.
Now I don't just want to have the input and the label,
I also want to have a button here where I say create and to have some styling now at least, I'll add a person
input.component.css and I just add a styling for label, input and button and I'll all give
them a display block property to make sure they all span into new lines.
Now we just need to point at that CSS file and register it as a styling file for this component
and that is done by adding style URLs in the configuration of this component,
so of the person input component. Now important, this takes an array of paths because you could have more
than one file, you can only have one template but you can have multiple styling files and here, I'll point
at person-input.component.css. And now if I save this, you see we have three lines and we have the
button here at the bottom. Now that is all nice and beautiful but now of course I wanna make sure that
when I hit that button and I just zoomed in, didn't change the styling, just zoomed in a bit more, when
I hit that button, I want to add whatever I entered here as a new element.
Now how can we do that?